Post cookie ad landscape blog post (#116)
readthedocs/ethicalads.io: content/posts/2021-post-cookie-ad-landscape.md

Google controls the browser you're probably using right now
and they'll control how these new tools and APIs like FLoC can be used for advertising.
In addition, Google has a first-party relationship with you and they don't need third-party cookies.
They can continue to use the emails you receive in Gmail,
the places you get directions to in Google Maps, the videos you watch on YouTube,
and the things you search for on Google to target you with ads.

The [Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) called FLoC a "terrible idea"](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2021/03/googles-floc-terrible-idea).
They say it will help ad tech companies fingerprint users
so they can uniquely identify them more easily
and that any site which supports logging in could easily request FLoC data and add it to users' data profiles.

## What ad tech companies are doing about it

The response from the ad tech side of the industry ranges
depending on where the company sits in the ecosystem.
Even if Google's vision doesn't become a reality
-- we expect some of it will and some of it won't --
the end of third-party cookies won't be the death knell for ad tech,
behavioral targeting, or personalized ads.

> Firstly, there are a lot of alternatives to cookies for tracking users across the web.

Author: Maybe "insidious alternatives"? Too much?

> Firstly, there are a lot of alternatives to cookies for tracking users across the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a lot of alternatives to cookies for tracking users across the web which are more invasive.
```

Firstly feels weird here, but just a personal preference I think

* **Supercookies:** So called ["supercookies"](https://blog.mozilla.org/security/2021/01/26/supercookie-protections/)
  use trackers hidden in other parts of browser like ETags or HSTS headers.
  These are not cleared by clearing cookies and can potentially identify users uniquely or be used with fingerprinting.
* **CNAME Cloaking:** [CNAME Cloaking](https://webkit.org/blog/11338/cname-cloaking-and-bounce-tracking-defense/)
  involves a publisher setting up a subdomain for an ad tech tracker so it appears as a first-party domain for cookie purposes.

Advertisers and ad tech companies are also leery of Google having too much control.
With states like California and Virginia adopting privacy legislation,
they know the privacy landscape is changing and some of them are trying to get in front of it with their own proposals.
The Trade Desk, an ad tech company,
has an alternative approach they call [Unified ID 2.0](https://www.thetradedesk.com/us/about-us/industry-initiatives/unified-id-solution-2-0).
This will only work for sites and apps that support logins
since it operates off of hashed email addresses, but once logged in,

> users can be targeted with personalized ads.

Author: Maybe add some commentary like "While this isn't an approach we want to see become the norm, at least they're upfront about it."

Reviewer: Yep, I addressed this a bit at the end of this section, but could also go here.

Lastly, some companies are trying to pressure Google and other players into slowing or reversing these changes.
When Apple's iOS 14 required apps using ad tracking to request user permission,
Facebook cried foul and is claiming that these [privacy protections hurt small businesses](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/12/16/facebook-apple-idfa-ios14-small-business/).
The UK's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) at the request of advertising market participants

> is specifically investigating the changes to Chrome and the Privacy Sandbox.

Reviewer: This feels like a weird ending. to this section. We should probably put a small transition to the last paragraph:

```suggestion
is specifically investigating the changes to Chrome and the Privacy Sandbox.

We generally oppose all of these attempts at tracking users across the web,
and are building on a more privacy-focused foundation of contextual ad targeting. 
```

> 

Author: Maybe add something like "Only the big ad players want to keep the status quo for ad tracking. This might delay privacy improvements, but they're going to come."
